# tetengger
A free bookmark service powered by GitHub. 

## Motivation

Nowadays, you will face a situation where you need to read and search so many things in the internet. Sometimes, you need to go back on what you've read.

How to improve the effectiveness and the efficiency to find something that you've read? yes, you know it. You need to save or bookmark that information.

Many services are available to solve this problem (i.e. [Instapaper](https://www.instapaper.com/u), [Raindrop](https://raindrop.io/), [pocket](https://getpocket.com/en/), etc...). Of course they are offering a good service,  but why I created this? the simple reason is just to save money (*lol*), make the most on the free resources, and contribute to open source :)

*fun fact*: tetengger is *marker* in *sundanese* (one of the local language in Indonesia).

## tetengger-cli

tetengger-cli is CLI tool that everyone can use to save (i.e bookmark) any content from the web for free to their GitHub repository in markdown format.

### Prerequisites
In order to use this CLI, you need to have GitHub account, Github repository that you want to use to store the content and also the GitHub token to interact with the API.

Check out this [article](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.4/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token) on how to create Github token. The scope needed to use this CLI is at least `repo, workflow`.

### Install
Clone this repository and install the CLI using:

```bash
make install
```

### Usage
The following manual is generated by the help command:

```bash
Tetengger (adapted from Sundanese which means marker) 
                is a CLI tool that everyone can use to save (i.e bookmark) any content from the web 
                with free to their GitHub repository

Usage:
  tetengger [command]

Available Commands:
  completion  Generate the autocompletion script for the specified shell
  help        Help about any command
  save        Save the web content into your GitHub repository in markdown format

Flags:
  -c, --config string       config file (default is $HOME/.tetengger.yaml)
  -h, --help                help for tetengger
  -r, --repository string   the Github repository that will be used to store the content.
      --token string        the GitHub token to authenticate and authorize tetengger with the GitHub account.
  -u, --username string     the GitHub username used to store the content.
  -v, --version             version for tetengger

Use "tetengger [command] --help" for more information about a command.
```

## Github Pages

You maybe realized or have question that how to search the saved content easily because it's stored in GitHub repository? Well, the answer is you can use GitHub pages for free to store the content.

As by now, `tetengger` doesn't have specific built-in Github Pages. It's already in the author roadmap but the author currently doesn't have enough time to do it :(

But in the meantime, you can freely use `tetengger-cli` to save the content to your own GitHub pages. For example, the author is hosting his second brain using [quartz](https://github.com/jackyzha0/quartz) as the GitHub pages and save every content from `tetengger-cli` to that repository. You can find more details [here](https://github.com/irfansofyana/MySecondBrain/tree/hugo/content/bookmark).